## The C++ Code

Suppose we have created a package named FirstAlg, and we want to define an algorithm with the same name. The necessary work includes,

- define a C++ class named FirstAlg, which is inherited from the AlgBase class;
- define a constructor, which takes a string parameter;
- implement the 3 abstract methods in base class, initialize(), execute() and finalize(); The bool return value indicates the execution status. If there is any error, the return value should be `false`, and the application will be stopped.

### Class defination

In the example, we will also involve the properties, which are defined as the data members of the algorithm class.

The contents of the header file (FirstAlg.h),

```c++
// file FirstAlg.h
#ifndef FIRST_ALG_H
#define FIRST_ALG_H

#include "SniperKernel/AlgBase.h"  //the AlgBase defination

class FirstAlg : public AlgBase
{
    public:
        FirstAlg(const std::string& name);  //constructor

        bool initialize();
        bool execute();
        bool finalize();

    private:
        unsigned int  m_count;  //the count of event loop
        int           m_value;  //an int property
        std::string   m_msg;    //a string property
};
#endif
```

### Algorithm declaration

An algorithm must be declared in SNiPER, so that it can be registered into the framework when the module is loaded. This is done by a macro DECLARE_ALGORITHM, which takes the algorithm class name as its parameter. It's recommended to put the declaration at the beginning of the source file.

```c++
DECLARE_ALGORITHM(FirstAlg);
```

### Properties

Properties are the C++ variables that configurable in Python at run time. In an algorithm, a property can be declared by the ```declProp()``` method. This method takes 2 parameters, the first is the name of the property, and the second is its correlated variable.

The following variable types can be declared as properties,

- scalar: C++ build in types and std::string;
- std::vector with scalar element type
- std::map with scalar key type and scalar value type

The properties have to be declared in the constructor. We can set a default value while the declaration. For example,

```
declProp("TheValue", m_value = 1);
```

### Logs

We can print any message via ```SniperLog``` just like the ```std::cout```.

```
LogDebug << "in the FirstAlg::execute()" << std::endl;
```

The corresponding message on the screen is,

```
task:FirstAlg.execute         DEBUG: in the FirstAlg::execute()
```

At the beginning, it shows this is a log printed in the execute() method of FirstAlg. Then, it is an indicator of the log level. And finally it is the log content.

There are 6 log levels in SNiPER. From lowest to highest they are,

- 0: LogTest, the indicator is "TEST";
- 2: LogDebug, the indicator is "DEBUG";
- 3: LogInfo, the indicator is "INFO";
- 4: LogWarn, the indicator is "WARN", means this is a warning message;
- 5: LogError, the indicator is "ERROR";
- 6: LogFatal, the indicator is "FATAL";

We can set the log level globally via Task, or set a different log level to each DLE component. Then the logs with lower levels will not shown on the screen.

### The implementation

We put the contents together. Here is the implementation of the source file (FirstAlg.cc),

```c++
// file FirstAlg.cc
#include "FirstAlg.h"
#include "SniperKernel/AlgFactory.h"  //the macro DECLARE_ALGORITHM

DECLARE_ALGORITHM(FirstAlg);

FirstAlg::FirstAlg(const std::string& name)
    : AlgBase(name),
      m_count(0)
{
    declProp("TheValue", m_value = 1);
    declProp("Message",  m_msg);
}

bool FirstAlg::initialize()
{
    LogDebug << "in the FirstAlg::initialize()" << std::endl;
    return true;
}

bool FirstAlg::execute()
{
    LogDebug << "in the FirstAlg::execute()" << std::endl;

    ++m_count;
    m_value *= m_count;
    LogInfo << "Loop " << m_count << m_msg << m_value << std::endl;

    return true;
}

bool FirstAlg::finalize()
{
    LogDebug << "in the FirstAlg::finalize()" << std::endl;
    return true;
}
```
